# Gearing

Gearing measures how much of the capital employed is non-current liabilities. In
[[./Return_on_capital_employed_(ROCE)_20221123.md|Return on capital employed
(ROCE)]] we saw how ROCE was non-current liabilities plus total equity, Gearing
is non-current liabilities divided by that

$\frac{\text{non-current liabilities}}{\text{non-current liabilities + total
equity}}$

A common error is to forget that non-current liabilities is on the denominator
of the fraction as well as the numerator. This is a real ratio called the
*debt-equity ratio*, but it isn't used in A-level business

## Examples

If a business has 150,000 non-current liabilities and 395,000 total equity,
their gearing is 27.5%

If they borrow 50,000 more, their gearing will be 33.6%: a higher figure because
more of their employed capital is from borrowing

---

Similarly, if a business has long-term loans of 340,000, share capital of
200,000 and reserves of 250,000, their capital employed will be 790,000 and
their gearing will be 43.0%

If the same business funds a purchase of 285,000 with long-term borrowing their
new gearing will be 58%. Notice how the 285,000 is added on to both the
numerator and denominator of the equation rather than just the numerator

---

We can also calculate the long-term liabilities from the capital employed and
the gearing rate using multiplication. If gearing is 40% and capital employed is
580,000, the long-term liabilities are 232,000

If this business makes a 110,000 purchase, their new long-term liabilities will
be 342,000 and their new capital employed will be 690,000, leaving their gearing
at 49.6%

---

Businesses don't always finance everything through a long-term loan, in-fact
businesses can use multiple sources of finance on a single purchase

If a business has 5.1 from long-term loans, and 3 from both share capital and
retained profit, their capital employed will be 11.1 and their gearing will be
45.9%

If they make a new purchase of 2.2 and 35% of the finance is raised through
shares with the rest coming from a loan, their long-term liabilities will
increase by 1.43, but their capital employed will also increase by an additional
0.77

Therefore, their new capital employed will be 13.3 (a full 2.2 increase), their
long-term liabilities will be 6.53 and their gearing will be 49.1%, or just
under 50%!
