# Personal Statement Writing

## 6th-form personal statement

<!-- spell-checker:words lockdown,chatbots,Duxford -->

Note: *This statement has been retconned, however the meaning has been kept as
originally intended*

I'm Skyler, a Year 11 student at Chesterton Community College. I'm a
hard-working and precise student who enjoys contributing to discussions. In the
future, I hope to have a career in computer science and possibly run a small
software company.

Since the start of secondary school, I have been enthralled by computers; they
are logical, complicated, and integral to our daily lives. My dream has been to
develop software or hardware for computers that can help people to have more
enjoyable experiences using their devices. In the past, I've developed several
Discord chatbots, one of which has been invited to over two thousand servers. At
the moment, I'm working with a friend to make a fast Fourier transform machine
to display the frequencies of inputted audio on LED strips.

Recently, I've become more interested in companies and how they work. Over
lockdown I made a small business with a few friends selling custom-made
chatbots; it has been fairly successful and we already have a few clients buying
our services. We started slowly but quickly learned how to work well together
and create products that people enjoyed. Although we have had some setbacks and
we are still in the infant stages of creating a company I have high hopes and
look forward to the future with this team.

I've been a newspaper delivery girl since the beginning of Year 10, both on
weekdays and weekends, and used the money that I earned to finance hardware
purchases and save for the future. I have learned how to be reliable and
punctual in this role by arriving on time every day despite the 7 am starts.

During my time at Chesterton, I have taken part in several competitions. One
competition I took part in was Go4SET, which involved designing improvements for
my school. My team designed a better queuing system, which involved using the
devices that each student already has to book time-slots for eating lunch.

The competition I am proudest of is the First Tech Challenge of 2019-2020: a
robotics challenge, in which I was the programmer for our team. Throughout the
competition, I had to work with my teammates, particularly those involved in
hardware or design to complete the project before the deadline. We attended the
regional competition in Duxford, advancing to the second round. We qualified for
the national competition in London, which unfortunately had to be cancelled due
to COVID-19.

In conclusion, I am fascinated by computers and technology, and work hard at
them both in academic study and as a hobby. I look forward to continuing this at
A-level. Thank you for considering my application.

## 6th-form personal statement evaluation

### What went well?

- At the time this was generally seen to be a very high-quality personal
  statement
- It clearly explained why I was interested in taking the subjects I was taking
- It elegantly gave reasons for all 3 of the subjects I cared about

### What can I do better?

- Update personal details
- Add new information
- Mentions a lot about my interests, and while this is related to my interests
  in the courses mentions very little about what my plans in the future are

### What needs to be changed?

<!-- spell-checker:words Robo,HRSFC -->

- Not entirely relevant to the subjects I want to study at uni
- Information is outdated
  - Doesn't mention my work experience at Collabora
  - Doesn't mention RoboSoc @ HRSFC
  - Outdated personal details (Year 11 student, @CCC etc.)

---

## University personal statement (draft 0)

<!-- spell-checker:words GCSE,RoboCon -->

I'm Skyler, a student at Hills Road 6th-form College. I'm a
hard-working and precise student who enjoys contributing to discussions. In the
future, I hope to have a career in computer science and possibly run a small
software company.

Since the start of secondary school, I have been enthralled by computers; they
are logical, complicated, and integral to our daily lives. My dream has been to
develop software or hardware for computers that can help people to have more
enjoyable experiences using their devices. In the past, I've developed various
software including several Discord chatbots, one of which has been invited to
over two thousand servers. Right now, I'm working on writing tools to make it
easier to manage my school life. I've already written an app to download my
timetable into Google calendar, and I'm currently working on a task list program
to better track and prioritize my responsibilities, including homework and
revision.

I've been a newspaper delivery girl since the beginning of Year 10, both on
weekdays and weekends, and used the money that I earned to finance hardware
purchases and save for the future. I have learned how to be reliable and
punctual in this role by arriving on time every day despite the 7 am starts.

In the summer of 2022, I got an internship with a software company called
Collabora. Over my holidays I worked remotely with a team of people helping to
create an open-source online office suite. As well as being an exciting
experience this developed my skills at team-working, as well as the discipline
to stay focused on my tasks. I performed so well in my internship that I was
offered a zero-hour contract so that I could work around my college hours after
the summer ended.

I've also been heavily involved in the robotics society at Hills Road. We both
run a robotics competition for GCSE-age students called RoboCon and compete in a
national robotics competition called Student Robotics. To provide a good
experience for students in RoboCon it's essential that we can work together as a
society and keep to deadlines. Similarly, organization and inter-team
communication are crucial for succeeding at Student Robotics, as if you cannot
work with people who are building different parts of the robot it is likely not
to work properly. Finally, the Robotics society also needs to have positive
interactions with companies in order to get sponsored by them.

Overall, both RoboCon and Student Robotics were a massive success, with almost 10
happy teams of students after RoboCon and both a "Team Image" award and 1st
place prizes at Student Robotics. We also had good sponsor communications, with
some of our sponsoring companies sending people to RoboCon and later giving us
feedback that they had really enjoyed it. This year, I've become the leader of
the Robotics Society, allowing me to help other Hills students enjoy Robotics
and hopefully also find passions in software and engineering.

In conclusion, I am fascinated by computers and technology, and work hard at
them both in academic study and as a hobby. I look forward to continuing this at
university. Thank you for considering my application.

